README.rst, before:

.. -*- mode: rst -*-

===========
 goreplace
===========

goreplace is a simple utility which can be used as replacement for grep + sed
combination in one of most popular cases - find files, which contain something,
possibly replace this with something else.

Usage
-----

Usage is pretty simple, you can just run ``gr`` to see help on
options. Basically you just supply regexp (or a simple string - it's a regexp
always as well) as an argument and goreplace will search for it in all files
starting from the current directory, just like this::

  gr somestring

Some directories and files can be ignored by default (``gr`` is looking for your
``.hgignore``/``.gitignore`` in parent directories), just run ``gr`` without any
arguments to see help message - it contains information about them.

If you need to replace found strings with something, just pass ``-r
replacement`` option and they will be replaced in-place. No backups are made
(not that you need them, right? You're using version control, aren't you?).
Unfortunately only plain strings are supported as replacement, no regexp
submatch support yet (planned, though).

Commit message:

make goreplace support `go` tool (I hope this will work)

README.rst, after:

.. -*- mode: rst -*-

===========
 goreplace
===========

goreplace is a simple utility which can be used as replacement for grep + sed
combination in one of most popular cases - find files, which contain something,
possibly replace this with something else.

Installation
------------

It's suited to be installed via ``go`` tool, so just do usual thing::

  go get github.com/piranha/goreplace

And you should be done. You'll have ``$GOPATH`` set to some directory for this
to work (it'll put sources and generated binary there).

I prefer name ``gr`` to ``goreplace``, so I link ``gr`` somewhere in my path
(usually in ``~/bin``) to ``$GOPATH/bin/goreplace``.

Usage
-----

Usage is pretty simple, you can just run ``gr`` to see help on
options. Basically you just supply regexp (or a simple string - it's a regexp
always as well) as an argument and goreplace will search for it in all files
starting from the current directory, just like this::

  gr somestring

Some directories and files can be ignored by default (``gr`` is looking for your
``.hgignore``/``.gitignore`` in parent directories), just run ``gr`` without any
arguments to see help message - it contains information about them.

If you need to replace found strings with something, just pass ``-r
replacement`` option and they will be replaced in-place. No backups are made
(not that you need them, right? You're using version control, aren't you?).
Unfortunately only plain strings are supported as replacement, no regexp
submatch support yet (planned, though).
